Detective Recapped here. Today, I’m going
to explain a thriller film called, “Elle”,
which follows the sordid story of a woman
who ordered takeout after getting violated.
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
The indifference and ignorance of animals are,
for the most part, completely forgivable.
The fact that they do not know any better
relieves them from any true accountability, at
least by human standards. That same apathy is
displayed one tragic afternoon by a cat owned
by a red-haired woman named Michele Leblanc.
Her cat sits motionless as a masked assailant
comes into her home and breaks her things.
Then, he forces himself onto Michele. Strangely
enough, that same outward nonchalance is displayed
by Michele. After the ordeal, she simply picks
herself up from her living room floor to resume
her life. As if on autopilot, Michele sweeps
the broken glass immediately after getting up.
After Michele takes a bath and orders
takeout, her son, Vincent, visits her.
When he notices her forming black eye,
Michele lies about falling on her bike.
They proceed to dinner, and Michele
pre-emptively anticipates Vincent’s request.
She tells him she’ll give him money for his new
apartment on the condition that she’ll look at
it first. Vincent tries to be coy about it, saying
he was planning to have her pay collateral and not
money. As their conversation goes on, she openly
disapproves of his pregnant girlfriend, Josie.
After the dinner had concluded, Michele
retrieves a mallet. She looks slightly
unsettled as she looks out the night streets
through her window. Later, Michele falls asleep
with her the mallet in her hand. Despite the
initial apathy Michele displayed, she’s shaken
by the experience in her own way. After all, not
everyone will have the same response to trauma.
The next morning, Michele goes to her job, where
she’s the head of a successful video game company.
A meeting is held to discuss the current status
of their latest game. Michele is a particular
kind of woman who attracts a particular kind of
attention. Being the head of her company, she has
the right to be assertive and adamant about her
visions, especially when they’re within reason.
But the male employees on board clearly hate her
and don’t value her opinion and instructions.
Kurt, for instance, abhors her, and it shows as he
challenges her during their meeting. But the man
is left quietly seething when Michele flippantly
shoots him down. The only one who adores her there
is Kevin, who’s open about how much he loves her,
even if jokingly. After that meeting, she goes to
the hospital to have herself tested for a possible
S.T.D. because of what happened the day before.
Afterwards, she goes to visit her aging mother,
Irene, who has a penchant for Botox and hiring
male escorts to sleep with. The behavior upsets
Michele, as she finds it especially inappropriate
considering her mother’s financial situation. When
Irene asks what Michele will do if she remarries,
Michele bluntly tells her that she’ll kill her.
By the end of the day, Michele encounters her
next-door neighbours, the married couple Rebecca
and Patrick. As Rebecca and Patrick walk into
their house, Patrick looks over his shoulder at
Michele, and Michele seems to look back at him.
Michele’s cat approaches her when she walks
into the house. Suddenly, she is reminded of
the traumatic incident. She picks up the cat and
half-jokingly asks why it didn’t at least scratch
the man. Things aren’t finished yet, however, and
Michele receives a message from her assailant,
saying that she’s tight for a woman her
age. This text prompts her to shop for a
self-defense weapon. She buys the most powerful
can of mace there was and decides, on a whim,
to also buy a hand-ax. Calling the police should
have been the first thing that Michele’s done when
she was violated but instead, she slept with a
mallet. And now, with her assailant texting her,
she has all the reasons to believe that
the man personally knows her. Still,
Michele continues to take matters into her own
hands as opposed to telling the authorities.
After making her purchase, Michele leaves
to park at a restaurant for a meeting.
Michele parks poorly, and crashes her car into
another one after mistakenly backing her car too
much. But ever nonchalant, she just heads into
the restaurant after acknowledging it. There,
her ex-husband, Richard, greets her, and they
talk about Vincent and about how broke Richard is.
They both agree that their son’s girlfriend is a
psycho, and Richard comments that ‘psycho’ usually
means ‘good in bed’. Suddenly, Michele asks him
if he thinks she’s tight for a woman her age.
This takes Richard aback, and he just stares at
her. Fortunately, Michele’s friend and co-CEO,
Anna, shows up, along with her husband, Robert.
While they're discussing and lightly dismissing
Richard's video game idea, Michele drops the
bomb that she was attacked the other day.
To their horror, she says that she guesses she
was violated. Everyone is shocked by the news,
and even more so when they find out that she
hasn’t contacted the police. After dinner,
Richard speaks with Michele, trying to convince
her to report the crime. Michele refuses,
claiming she doesn’t want to deal with the
police ever again. The topic easily shifts
to Richard’s rejected video game proposal, and
the exchange causes Richard to walk to his car,
which is the one that Michele backed into.
Unmoved, Michele lets him know that someone messed
up his fender. Since there’s a high possibility
that Michele’s assailant is someone who she knows,
she’s starting to question who took advantage
of her. She repeated the text to Richard,
and she isn’t bothered at all that she
damaged her broke ex-husband’s car.
It’s unclear whether Michele suspects him, but
given how fast and sudden everything happened,
the assailant could be anyone. It could be
Richard, Robert, or someone else entirely.
The next morning, Michele and Vincent head
towards his and Josie’s upcoming apartment.
When Michele arrives at the empty property,
Josie deliberately gets on Michele’s nerves
by openly kissing Vincent in front of her. She
even makes sure to look at Michele. Immediately,
Michele realizes that the apartment is more
expensive than the one that Vincent mentioned.
Josie is set on this apartment as she thinks
that the last one is a dump, but Michele calmly
asserts that it may be basic, but it isn’t
a dump. Josie isn’t having it, and soon,
the two women have a heated exchange, and in the
end, Michele withdraws her financial assistance.
Michele arrives at her office where she’s greeted
by Robert. It’s revealed that the two of them have
been having an affair behind Anna’s back. With
Robert wanting to get pleasured, Michele blankly
reminds him that she just went through a traumatic
experience. Robert retorts that part of his
character is being unpredictable before undoing
and pulling down his pants. Then, he comments that
he knows Michele’s a wilting flower, but surely,
she can at least touch his member. In response,
Michele places a bucket right in front of Robert.
It’s clear that Robert cares as much about Michele
as he does a bed because that’s just what she is
to him – his next lay. Still, he barely shows any
concern towards Michele despite the tragedy
that happened to her. It wouldn’t even be a
stretch to wonder if her assailant was Robert
and that he was playing a sick game on her.
Later that evening, Michele stays
behind the office after work hours,
and she suddenly receives another disgusting text
from her assailant. This time, it’s complimenting
the colour of her blouse, adding that his seed
won’t leave a stain on it. Subtly perturbed,
Michele slowly looks around the office, and she
finds that the only person there that night is
Kurt. If there’s any man we’ve seen so far who
has a grudge against Michele, it’s Kurt. If Kurt
wants power over Michele and if he wants to break
her façade of stoicism, then it’s easy to imagine
him as the assailant. But we don’t know what
Kurt wants, only that he’s pissed at his boss.
Michele meets with her mother Irene once again
and she discusses the upcoming parole hearing of
Michele’s father. He was a popular mass-murder
from many years ago. This is the primary reason
why Michele refuses to ask the police for
help as she fears that her father’s reputation
will affect how the cops will treat her.
That evening, Michele notices an unfamiliar
car roving about her neighborhood. Michele
decides to pick up her can of mace along with
her hand-ax. Michele goes straight to the car,
breaks down the glass window with the hand-ax,
and sprays the driver right in the face. This
goes to show Michele’s tenacity as a character,
having no inhibitions in delivering vengeance and
defending herself when the opportunity presents
itself. Not many would choose to take up arms like
she did in that situation. To be able to confront
one’s abuser is no small feat by any means. When
the man comes out of the car, it is actually
just Richard. Michele takes Richard into her home
and helps him with the pepper spray in his eyes.
Richard explains that he was just worried for
Michele’s safety because she refuses to ask for
help from the police so he decided to patrol the
vicinity himself. Michele asks Richard why he’s
using a different car, and Richard says that his
car is in the shop and that he’s borrowing a car
from a friend. Michele immediately infers that
the car belongs to Richard’s girlfriend, Helene.
Once again, his very presence warrants
an examination of him as a suspect.
Richard claims that he was patrolling
the vicinity in concern for his ex-wife.
Moreover, he’s using a different car,
which puts him in a suspicious position,
though Michele did ruin his fender. However,
having known Richard for the longest time,
Michele doesn’t doubt his intentions and instead
focuses on the jealousy she feels towards Helene.
One day in the office, Michele receives
a lewd video of a CGI scene in her game,
edited to make it look as if Michele was being
abused. Again, Anna tries to convince Michele to
approach the police but she still refuses. Later
that day, Michele visits Helene at her workplace,
where she sees that Helene’s a young and
beautiful yoga instructor. The awkward
encounter results in an invitation for Helene to
a Christmas dinner. Afterward, Michele returns
to her car but gets interrupted by a call from
Vincent, who reports that Josie is in labor.
Michele rushes to the hospital to find Josie
already on the way to the delivery room.
Moments later, Josie’s baby is successfully
delivered with no complications. However, Michele
is bothered by the fact that the baby has a much
darker skin tone than both his parents. Michele,
who is already wary of Josie, spots a tattoo on
her left breast with another man’s name, “Eric”.
When Michele drives home that evening,
she is greeted by a couple of police cars.
Rebecca explains to her that there was a
suspicious character lurking about in her bushes.
Apparently, her husband Patrick went and spooked
the man away when he checked on Michele’s house.
This positions Patrick in a delicate situation.
Mainly, one could think that Patrick may be the
man lurking in the bushes. This puts yet another
man on the list of suspects. Patrick offers to
escort Michele back into her house which leads to
Michele’s fluttering attraction towards Patrick
blooming into infatuation. Later, Michele reaches
out to Kevin. She asks him to teach her how to
shoot a gun then assigns him with finding out
who sent the lewd CGI video of her. Being her
admirer in the office, Kevin agrees, especially
with Michele’s handsome payment for the job.
Christmas is nearing, and Michele is set to host
a Christmas party for the people in her life.
On the evening of the party, the complete cast of
colorful characters fills Michele’s dining table.
Michele’s table includes her elderly mother Irene
with her young male escort of a boyfriend Ralf,
her distant son Vincent with his troublesome
partner Josie, and her ex-husband Richard with his
young and pretty yoga girlfriend. Then, there’s
even her business partner Anna with her husband
Robert, with who Michelle has an affair. And last
but not least is her neighbor Rebecca with her
husband Patrick, the man who Michele is currently
seducing with her feet under the dinner table.
At this point, we’re face to face with many of the
suspects. And yet, it’s anyone’s guess as to who
it could be. However, it is strongly suggested
that the assailant is most definitely sitting
at that dinner table. It’s a sight to behold
with chaos brewing right after Irene announces
to everyone at that table that she and Ralf are
getting married. This prompts an applause from
everyone at the table with the sole exception
of the blunt Michele, who could not contain
her laughter and her disgust for her mother.
After dinner, the guests are all left to their
own little activities. Michele finds Patrick
sitting on the couch all by himself. She takes
this opportunity to speak with him. However, among
all of the topics Michele could’ve chosen to talk
about, she decided on recounting her childhood
and how her life was ruined by her notorious
father. Michele explains that when she was young,
her father came home one day with blood on his
hands. Crazed, he burned the entire house down on
a whim, and the young Michele helped her father,
not knowing exactly what it meant. Eventually,
the police and the media came, took a photo of her
amongst the burning rubble, and she was forever
branded as the psychopath’s daughter. Michele
had since then worked the life out of her body
just to bring her name from the brink of shame.
This bit of narration from Michele is very
revealing about her fears and her character.
She doesn’t trust the police at all, especially
since they had misconstrued her image before.
Michele was just a child; her life
was ruined by her father, too.
And if the police didn’t bother with helping a
child facing injustice, why would they bother
with the now-grown psychopath’s daughter? When
Michele is done opening up about her life,
she walks to the kitchen where she encounters
her mother. Irene tells Michele that she was
needlessly cruel to her. A small argument ensues
which eventually leads to Irene having a stroke.
The entire party is brought to a halt, and
Michele accompanies her mother to the hospital.
In the ambulance, Irene tells Michele to go
see her father. She didn’t know it at the time,
but these are the last words that her mother would
say to her. Whether Michele would come to regret
her actions is left ambiguous. Either way, Michele
would no longer have a chance to apologize to her
mother. In the hospital, the nurse reports
that while Irene’s in a stable condition,
there’s little hope for her to wake up from
her coma. That evening, Michele goes home to
get some rest, and she’s accompanied by her best
friend, Anna. The two of them sleep side-by-side,
snuggling for warmth. They recount the time
when the two of them attempted to hook up. They
didn’t get to it, though, since at the time,
the two of them couldn’t stop laughing. Anna
then gingerly kisses Michele’s lips, and it’s
unclear whether it was platonic or romantic.
The next morning, Michele is startled awake
by Robert touching her thighs. At this time,
Michele turns him down and ends their affair.
With that, she visits her comatose mother. Michele
speaks to her as if at any moment she would wake
and reveal that it was all just an elaborate act
to get back at Michele for hurting her. She keeps
trying to convince herself of this, but she is
soon confronted with a harsh reality as several
nurses rush in to revive Irene, whose heart had
just stopped beating. At this point, the only
thing Michele could do is wish with all her heart
that it was just a ploy, but the truth is that her
mother is dead. Once again, she is left powerless
Michele is not given much time to grieve
since her assailant is still out and about.
When Michele arrives home from the hospital,
she spots her bedroom with the lights on.
She equips her pepper spray and her hand-ax then
proceeds to the bedroom. When she gets there,
all she sees is her laptop with the words, “I’m
sorry I couldn’t stop myself” flashing on the
screen. This only reinforces the possibility that
her assailant is someone who she knows. Bizarrely
enough, the message can be interpreted as the
assailant feeling remorseful for his actions.
But it’s also possible that it’s another one of
his twisted games to get under Michele’s skin.
Soon, Michele and her family start searching
for a place to spread Irene’s ashes.
But as they’re strolling on, Josie starts
berating Vincent about a small mistake.
This pitiful display prompts Michele to be frank
with her son, saying that Vincent is obviously
not the father of the child. Vincent erupts at
his mother and he storms off along with Josie.
When everyone had left, Michele and Richard
throw Irene’s ashes in the park by the water.
During a windy evening, Patrick helps
Michele close her shutters. Eventually,
one thing leads to another, and they start
kissing. However, Patrick suddenly stops
himself and leaves. This is yet another suspicious
bit of behavior from the men in Michele’s life.
While blueballing others and yourself doesn’t
mean that you took advantage of someone, Patrick’s
sudden refusal and escape remain questionable.
After all, if he were the assailant, then sleeping
with Michele might give away what he did.
Later that day, Michele receives an update
from Kevin about his special project. Kevin
reports nothing significant about Kurt. Suddenly,
Michele gets the idea of suspecting Kevin as
well. She sneaks around after hours to access
Kevin’s computer. Soon enough, she discovers that
the video was indeed created by Kevin. Despite
the revelation, Michele senses no malicious
intent from him, so she lets Kevin explain.
Apparently, the video was just a ridiculous
joke he had created for himself but one of the
employees caught wind of the video and sent it
to everyone as a joke. Michele wonders if Kevin
was her assailant so she orders him to strip.
Unlike her assailant, Kevin’s member is cut,
so she lets her grudge towards him go, just
like Kevin has to let that extra payment go.
Michele comes home after a long day and receives
the crib that she had ordered for her grandchild.
She places it on top of the table with its
strap dangling from the edges. Suddenly,
her masked assailant ambushes her from behind
and once again tries to force himself on her.
With her worst nightmare repeating itself, Michele
is determined to fight back. With a stronger grip
on herself, Michele gathers her strength and
refuses to be used once more. She grabs the
crib strap to pull it towards her, and it hits the
back of the man’s head. Then, she grabs a pair of
metal scissors and pierces it through the man’s
hand. Finally, Michele can discover the truth
behind the man who violated her. She pulls the ski
mask off and to her surprise, she sees Patrick.
Enraged, Michele threatens Patrick with the
scissors, demanding him to leave the house.
The following morning, Michele spots Patrick
across her front gate. Patrick wears his suit
on the way to work as if nothing had happened.
Seeing this, Michele realizes that discovering
her assailant’s identity means nothing as
she still refuses to turn to the authorities.
And so, Michele is caged in a peculiar and tragic
conundrum. Her own assailant is living right next
door, and she has no one to turn to.
Despite her distaste for the police,
Michele resolves to see her father after
discovering that his parole had not been approved.
Though this is difficult for her, Michelle keeps
her mother’s final wish in her mind, and she has
unresolved issues of her own with her father.
In an ironic turn of events, Michele’s father
hanged himself the same morning that Michele went
to see him. This leaves her upset over not being
able to tell her father of all the things she
wanted to get off her chest. However, she takes
comfort in the fact that her despicable father had
decided to kill himself rather than to face the
daughter that he had ruined. Somehow, she tells
herself that it was she who killed him in the end.
Michele is driving home from the prison, when
suddenly, she receives a call from the press
asking for an interview about her father’s
recent passing. With all that’s happened,
Michele’s still rattled by the events. She gets
distracted from the road, and she fails to see the
deer that’s crossing the street. In the long list
of Michele’s misfortunes, one would think she’d
be spared from yet another terrible event. But as
it stands, Michele is stuck inside her tilted car.
She calls several of her friends and family
for help but none of them are available.
Out of everyone she could have called, and out
of everyone who could have answered the phone,
it’s Patrick, her very own attacker, who
comes and helps her get out of the car.
Michele and Patrick return to Michele’s house.
He looks after Michele’s wounded leg and applies
first aid. At this point, Michele confronts
Patrick about why he forced himself on her.
To this, Patrick admits that it was
the only way he could get turned on.
Feeling ashamed, he leaves abruptly. Several
other conclusions occur over the next few days.
Robert and Michele have their one final
session before officially ending their affair.
Vincent comes home with his infant son after being
kicked out by Josie. On that very day, Josie comes
barging in to retrieve her son. The irresponsible
Vincent is distraught mostly over losing the baby.
Michele finally understands this
and the two of them reconcile.
One day, Michele and Vincent stumble upon Patrick
while doing groceries. He tells them that his
wife’s out on a long trip, and he’s left with
too much food in the house. Patrick invites the
both of them over, and Vincent readily agrees.
As for Michele, she mulls it over for a second,
but strangely enough, she also says yes. That
evening, a still-distraught Vincent drinks too
much of the wine. This leaves Patrick and Michele
alone together. In a rather dark and strange turn,
Michele remains attracted to Patrick. She seduces
him and in turn, Patrick leads Michele down to
the basement where no one can hear them
indulging in their deplorable delights.
What follows next is sickening and twisted, to
say the least. Patrick grabs hold of Michele and
beats her, making her fight back and thrash on the
ground. Still, she looks at Patrick and tells him,
“Do it”. Patrick stops abruptly, the excitement
leaving his body. He explains to Michele it only
turns him on when that the other person is being
forced. Upon hearing this, Michele hits Patrick,
which quickly re-invigorates him. After the
perverse lovemaking had finished, Michele goes
to Vincent and tells him they’ll be going home.
Michele is going to be having a party for their
game’s launch. At their latest meeting, Michele
finally gives Kurt credit for doing a good job.
Michele even entrusts the planning of the party
to Vincent. Things are falling into place for
the final act. All the characters are present, and
they’re finally getting what they want. However,
there still hangs a dark and foreboding aura
in the air. Before the launch party begins,
Anna admits to Michele that she thinks Robert
is cheating on her. This surprises Michele,
and she simply feigns her ignorance. During the
party, Michele first greets Robert, who recently
got dumped by Helene. She cheers him up by asking
him to coordinate with Kurt for his story ideas
for a new game. Meanwhile, Patrick is also there,
and he gleefully dances with Michele as if they’re
a normal couple. Then, Michele spots Robert and
Anna flirting with each other. Upon seeing this,
she tells Patrick that she needs to do
one thing before the two of them leave.
Tired of living a lie, Michele admits to her best
friend that the woman Robert was sleeping with
was her. Anna is speechless with Michele,
and she directs her anger towards Robert.
With this, Michele and Patrick take their leave.
In spite of everything in this strange and dark
climax, it’s hard to tell whether Michele
has accepted this new relationship. Is she
willing to accept this deplorable situation?
Is this provocation part of the game they play?
Or is she sincerely plotting to get rid of Patrick
once and for all? On the car ride home, Michele
tells Patrick that their relationship is sick.
She tells him that at the end of the day, she will
still report him to the police. Patrick looks to
Michele in disdain as the two of them reach their
neighborhood. Michele goes down the car first
and enters her house at a deliberately slow pace.
Just as she expects, Patrick is there in the
darkness of the kitchen with his ski mask on.
Once again, Patrick tries to force himself on
Michele. Believing that Michele’s playing along,
Patrick doesn’t see Vincent coming in with
a blunt object. Vincent smashes Patrick’s
head so hard that it injures him fatally.
Patrick musters the last ounce of strength
he has to stand up, and he looks at Michele
in bewilderment, asking her “Why?” Finally,
Patrick slumps down on the floor and Vincent
breaks down after being the one who killed him.
In turn, Michele comforts her son,
telling him that it’s all over now.
Despite the ever-looming threat being gone,
things in Michele’s life will forever be changed.
Will these changes be beneficial? Or will they
be yet another scar in Michele’s broken psyche?
Eventually, the police come and
Michele sends in her report.
In the end, Rebecca doesn’t resent Michele
for killing her husband, fully understanding
that Patrick is a troubled individual. Before
leaving the neighborhood, Rebecca admits that
she’s thankful that Michele was able to provide
what Patrick needed for a time. As Rebecca leaves,
Vincent and Josie drive by Michele’s house on
their brand new convertible. After proving to
be an excellent event organizer, Vincent finds his
calling and takes his responsibilities to heart,
winning back Josie and their son.
Michele visits her parents’ grave at the cemetery.
Suddenly, Anna appears and she approaches
Michele to make amends. Anna tells Michele
that she kicked Robert out of the house. With
this, Anna concludes that her house is too big
for her and it would be best if the two of them
lived together. After all, the only thing they
have left is each other. The two best friends
walk on to greet their more peaceful future.
Elle is a dark and controversial movie that leaves
audiences divided whether the story is powerful or
pointless. The film is less of a whodunit thriller
and is more of a character study of Michele
Leblanc, who is a morally dubious person to say
the least. Michele was subjected to terrible
things by terrible people, but she herself engaged
in cruel acts, like being unnecessarily harsh
with Josie and her mother and having no qualms
about sleeping with her best friend’s husband.
Among the myriad of things that characterized
her ruthlessness, it is the complexity of her
character that leaves a valuable impression
in cinema. One of the takeaways we’d like to
mention is the film’s critique of patriarchal
society. That there is a twisted desire to put
down or humiliate strong women perhaps on a
psycho-analytic level that not many people
realize. However, despite the imperfections of
her character, it is with that same strength that
Michele was able to liberate herself from her
assailant. Most of all, she managed to liberate
herself from the shackles of her past.
By the end of the movie, Michele
had the strength to accept that she
didn’t have to face the world alone.